ok so continuing on with our example in the main method we just finishing
off the code so that we can actually test
this we're going to add....
....and we're going to
set this up initially for worker one
then we're going to do a new....
....then in the run method we're
going to do worker...
...
...and of course we're going to
add .start at the end of the thread
to make it to kick off and do the same
for the second one's so new thread.....and we're going to do worker
2 this time....
....
at this point we've created 2 worker
instances and then we created a
thread for each instance and started the
threads when we construct the worker
instances where passing true for active
you can probably guess what's going to
happen here given what we spoke about in
the last video when we ran it and yes
this is a contrived example but it does
illustrate a live lock
so let's run just to see what happens and
as we expect since both workers are
active both keep handing the shared
resource to the other thread and can't
actually make any progress
so just move this over a little
bit more so it's giving the resource to
the other one
and if you recall with our code we went
to get this message
working on the common resource if we got
to the stage of actually working
but we're not getting that and that's
because neither of them is blocked
they're both constantly running or live
so hence the name live lock rather than
deadlock
when none of the threads can run so we
have to stop this application manually
now a solution to this is going to
depend on the code
there isn't actually a solution where
one size fits all answer here but now
that we know about live lock we'll have in mind when we
write code that uses multiple threads
and there doesn't have to be a loop
anytime threads have to wait for other
threads to complete something they don't
block while they wait
there's a potential for live lock
so the next potential problem that can
arise in a multi-threaded application is
called a slip condition
now this is a specific type of race condition also known as a thread
interference or also known as thread
interference
this can occur when a thread can be
suspended between reading a condition
and acting upon that condition
let's say we've got two threads reading
from a buffer each thread does the
following one
check the status 2 if it's okay it reads
data from the buffer three
if the data is end of file it sends the
status to the end of file and terminates if
the data isn't end of file it sets the
status to ok
now if we haven't synchronized the code
properly the following can happen
one thread one checks the status and
gets ok then it suspends thread 2 check
the status and gets ok
it reads end of file from the buffer and
sets the status to end of file then
terminates thread one runs again
it tries to read data from the buffer
but oops there's no data is thrown an
exception or crashes
because the threads can interfere with
each other when checking and setting the
condition thread one tried to do
something based on obsolete information
when a check the status it was ok but by
the time it acted upon the condition it
checked the status has been updated by
thread 2 now unfortunately thread one
doesn't see the updated information and
because of that does something erronous
so we're not going to code an example
because we've already seen plenty of
examples of thread interference but we
can see how the sequence of events have
just described will cause a problem
so a slip condition is a particular
type of race condition
the solution to this is the same as it
is forward literally any type of thread
interference use synchronized blocks or
locks to synchronize the critical
section of code
now if the
code is already synchronized then
sometimes the placement of the
synchronization may be causing the
problem when using multiple locks the
order in which the locks can be acquired
can also result in a slip condition
so that's it for common problems that
can occur when working with threads so
next we're going to take a look at a few
thread related topics that we haven't
yet covered so we'll see you in the next
video